here in msi's Booth they're showing off
everything from laptops and monitors to
car chargers but what I wasn't expecting
was for them to get into a new category
which is
paint yeah I pulled you into the video
just to make that joke sorry cliff in
all seriousness though the MSI claw does
a lot more than just change the color of
the existing handheld gaming systems on
the market from the outside yeah it
Bears a lot of similarity to a system
like the Rog Ally or the steam deck but
on the inside it is running Intel's
allnew core Ultra Series processors
which promises some pretty interesting
benefits I'll get to that in a bit first
I want to talk about what's special
about the outside but first this message
from our sponsor headphone juice is not
something you should be proud of these
are your typical headphones that
accumulate heat while you game e wikied
cushions add a cooling gel to their
cushions to keep your ears sweat free
you can easily replace them on your
headset check out wikied cushions and
the link below while you can get get
hall effect joysticks as an add-on for
consoles like the steam deck MSI has
opted to go for both hall effect
joysticks and triggers right out of the
box with the claw I wasn't expecting
this move after valve stated they opted
not to use hall effect joysticks over
reliability concerns but given how much
I prefer using them it's definitely a
welcome one to me even if uh I don't
know something could go wrong at some
point other than that they've ticked all
the important boxes dual stereo
front-facing speakers that are not
covered by your palms love to see it an
integrated fingerprint sensor in the
power button a Micro SD slot that
uh hopefully it doesn't overheat and
good enough feeling buttons and
ergonomics that I don't expect this to
be an issue whether you're more of a
rested in front of you gamer sit it in
your lap gamer or just hold it up gamer
whether they came up with that on their
own or uh borrowed from their
competitors I don't know but
realistically at this point it doesn't
matter because there's one other
standout Fe feature that I absolutely
love to see because they've gone Intel
they have an integrated Thunderbolt for
Port which means that like the Ally
you'll be able to run an external
graphics card on the claw but unlike the
Ali you're not limited to asus's
proprietary XG mobile Graphics interface
now Thunderbolt does have a disadvantage
this is Thunderbolt 4 not Thunderbolt 5
so it runs at half of the total Bend
with the vusa solution but as long as
you're not hooking a 4080 or a 4090 up
to this thing you can still get a
healthy Graphics boost by docking it to
a GPU and a part of what enables that is
the strong CPU performance of the meteor
Lake core Ultra 5 or core Ultra 7
processors that are at the heart of
these things which of course we're about
to take a look at here no no you're not
going to break that one what you can try
this one I want the real oh is this just
a dummy one no it's actually functional
oh well then why is this a sacrificial
lamb because this one is more important
okay fair enough to even get to open it
for you guys at all I had to sign away
my life they said they want two free
sponsored videos if I break it yep but
you said this one's not important not as
important after all the shenanigans I've
gotten up to in their booths over the
years I'm surprised they're letting me
do this at all but I couldn't resist an
opportunity to show off the very early
prototype of our Precision screwdriver
kit coming soon to LTT
store.com and besides a big selling
point of competing handhelds like
especially the steam deck is the ease
with which they can be opened up and
upgraded or repaired so I would like to
see if that's something that can also be
said about the claw we're off to a good
start six screws all of which are the
same oh and a fairly easy single piece
back that gives us let's see wo a dual
heat pipe cooling system love to see it
my goodness no what I didn't even think
about it but that was running Assassin's
Creed Mirage and I could I mean I'm in a
show Flor but I can barely hear it ah
not bad MSI not bad there's actually a
lot to appreciate in here for one thing
look at this battery I was wondering how
they packed a
53w hour battery into this thing and I
guess the answer is with a really funky
shape but that's a really good thing it
contributes to a really even hand feel
and Intel claims will give you a full 2
hours of battery life running Full Tilt
at the 35 W maximum TDP that this thing
will do when it's running on battery
power they claim more like 8 hours when
it's running in the 10 wat endurance
mode and there's more good news the
Wi-Fi module is not soldered and we saw
the importance of this when valve
upgraded the steam deck to the steam
deck OLED and we saw a dramatic increase
in download speeds when they went from
Wi-Fi 5 to Wi-Fi 6E of course that's
going to be less of an issue on the claw
in the first place because it ships with
Wi-Fi 7 meaning you're probably going to
run into a CPU bottle next for
downloading games before you max out
your Wi-Fi as an added bonus with that
chip while you can use the 32 mm
headphone microphone combo Jack it's
Bluetooth 5.4 meaning that with a
compatible headset you can expect much
lower latency even over traditionally
kind of crappy Bluetooth coming back to
that CPU again there are two different
chips that you might find in the MSI
claw the cor Ultra 5 135h or the core
Ultra 7
155h both of them have two of what Intel
are calling low power efficiency cores
which are basically just the same as
their regular efficiency cores but built
on a different process and tuned to
handle background tasks they both have
eight regular efficiency cores and then
the difference is they have either four
or six performance or pees so depending
on the AAA games that you might want to
play it could make more sense to go for
the 15 155h especially given the
relatively low difference in price end
of q1 at three different price points
starting at $699 with the middle one
looking like the best one in my mind
because that 512 gig SSD can easily be
upgraded just by removing a few screws
and popping in a new 2230 m.2 SSD oh and
all my excitement about the speeds and
feeds I kind of glossed over a major
detail the screen is 1080p 120 HZ and
should reach a peak brightness of around
400 to 500 nit so about what you'd
expect for a machine of this class just
like you'd expect this segue to our
sponsor
are your headphones cushions hot like a
tiny steam room stop steaming your ears
like your broccoli W cushions offer all
sort of cushion replacement for your
headphones and it's not just your
regular cushions with added dual layer
cooling gel they ensure you keep a cool
head even your team is feeding looking
for a crack Wiki cushion giv you a
crack-free
comfort they use topnotch materials like
breathable sport Fabric and memory form
with over 25,000 reviews and a 365 days
to fall in love warranty don't listen to
me listen to your ears this time check
out Wicked cushions and the link below
if you guys enjoyed this video hopefully
you're enjoying the rest of our CES
coverage and if you're not well go watch
it I know you will enjoy it that is I
don't know you'll watch it I hope you do